---
title: 'Decisions: Creating an LLC'
---

Looks like these days there is a plethora of nice looking online Services to
help you quickly setup a business online. This, however, brings up the paradox
of choice and the resulting decision making. Maybe it is not too complicated
after all. Its just that I would like to minimize any issues down the line. This
blog post is my attempt to write down my reasoning when creating my first ever
LLC, so my future self can hopefully learn from any mistakes.

### Decision: Home State or Delaware LLC?

Stripe Atlas seems to only support creating an LLC in Delaware. One reason for
this might be that it is geared towards Startups, and any Startups that may grow
enough to need Venture funding could easily convert to Delaware Corp at a later
date. Or maybe they just want to make money exploiting the fact that out of
state owners of Delaware LLC will end up using Stripe as their Registered Agent
in Delaware.

Stripe’s [documentation](https://stripe.com/docs/atlas/next#taxes) leaves the
problem for the customer to figure out:

>   If your company operates in any U.S. states other than Delaware, it might be
>   subject to annual taxation, registration, and reporting requirements in the
>   other states. Stripe recommends that you consult legal and tax professionals
>   about what requirements apply to your business.

According to [LLC
University](https://www.llcuniversity.com/best-state-to-form-an-llc/), best
state to form your LLC is your home state. Otherwise, you have to register a
“Foreign LLC” in your home state, which means you end up paying twice for State
Filing, Registered Agent, and Annual Report. And you have to pay taxes where the
money is made, so technically this would be the home state.

Decision: I will create LLC in my home state. This does imply that I cannot use
Stripe Atlas, which is a bummer because it is the brand I recognize the most.

Some Resources:

-   [Washington State Foreign LLC – Qualification and Registration
    (startmyllc.io)](https://startmyllc.io/washington-llc/washington-foreign-llc/)

-   [Foreign LLC - WA Secretary of
    State](https://www.sos.wa.gov/corps/foreignnonwashingtonlimitedliabilitycompanyllc.aspx)

### Decision: Should I pay for a Registered Agent?

 

### Decision: Which online Service should I use for creating the LLC?

Below are the Services that I considered:

-   Stripe Atlas

-   LegalZoom

-   Clerky

-   IncFile

-   Collective Hub

-   NorthWest Registered Agent

Decision: I am proceeding with using “” for creating my LLC. I am going to
figure out these open questions later:

1.  How to do bookkeeping?

2.  How to cheaply file taxes, especially when the revenue for the year is
    minimal or zero?
